# Retrospective

After completing the work, our group sat down for a retrospective on our development experience.

One of the best aspects of our development was working together as a team. We were very coherent in our vision, with similar goals in mind for the development of the app. We had very good communication and were able to meet and discuss topics easily together. We were able to follow most Agile principles and engineer the app development process around them. Once the development was completed, we managed to test the app thoroughly, ending with 83% test coverage overall.

One of the most difficult parts of the development experience was implementing a database during iteration 2. It was technology that many of our team members had not worked with before, so it was a learning experience. We also had a large amount of bugs and errors when trying to integrate the database, and we spent a lot of time debugging and trying to determine how it should work.

One of the better programming techniques we used was pair programming. We set aside time to work on the app or bug fixes together, helping us to manage difficult problems when they showed up. Having several heads looking at the code at the same time was better than one. This specifically helped us during the database implementation step as well as testing for delegating tasks between group members. This allowed us to communicate and manage our time more efficiently.

The groups planning throughout the app worked very well in helping to manage the groups time and segment related features into different iterations. We managed to split the features we wanted to implement into discrete, related chunks so that each iteration felt like a noticeable upgrade on the previous one. This way, we were also able to just add features on to the end, rather than having to refactor and change code as we went. The main example was our iteration 3, where we added all the recipe functionality. Implementing this was very simple, as all the classes were completely separate from the others, and we only had to rely on dependency injection to use the methods that had already been developed.

One area that we could have potentially improved is planning better for the three tiered architecture. Our initial code didn't follow a particular architecture, as well as not using interfaces. In our Iteration 2, we had to spend some time refactoring code into discrete packages, creating interfaces and eliminating any code smells that followed. However, once this was accomplished, it made the code much clearer and easier to understand.

Knowing what we know now, if we were to start over there are a few things that we would do differently. We would aim to develop certain features more to try and add some vertical depth to the app. This would allow us to iterate more on those features instead of just implementing them once and abandoning them, with no room to grow. We would also have more discussion on which features we really want to include, and trim any less valuable features so that they did not take any time away from higher priority features.